---
layout: default
---

Welcome to the homepage of Imperial College London machine learning tutorials.

## Schedule

| Date          | Speaker| Speaker Bio |Abstract | Venue |
|--------------:|:-------------:|------------|-------|---------|
| 23/10/19      | [Dr. José Miguel Hernández-Lobato](https://jmhl.org)| Since Sep 2016, Dr Hernández-Lobato is a Lecturer in Machine Learning at
the Department of Engineering in the University of Cambridge, UK. Before
that he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Harvard Intelligent
Probabilistic Systems group at the School of Engineering and Applied
Sciencies of Harvard University, and a postdoctoral research associate
in the Machine Learning Group at the University of Cambridge, UK. He got
his PhD from the Computer Science Department in Universidad Autónoma de
Madrid (Spain) in 2010. His research revolves around model based machine
learning with a focus on probabilistic learning techniques and with a
particular interest on Bayesian optimization, matrix factorization
methods, copulas, Gaussian processes and sparse linear models.|

In this tutorial, I will first give a brief introduction to machine
learning methods for modelling molecule data, with a strong focus on
graph neural networks. After this, I will present some applications of
machine learning to molecule data. First, I will focus on the problem of
efficiently searching chemical space for new molecules with optimal
properties. I will describe how to use recent advances in deep
generative models to obtain continuous representations of molecules
which allow us to automatically generate novel chemical structures by
performing simple operations in a latent space. These methods can then
be connected with Bayesian optimization techniques to accelerate the
search for new molecules with optimal properties. After this, I will
focus on the problem of modelling chemical reactions by predicting
electron paths. Chemical reactions can be described as the stepwise
redistribution of electrons in molecules. As such, reactions are often
depicted using “arrow-pushing” diagrams which show this movement as a
sequence of arrows. I will describe an electron path prediction model to
learn these sequences directly from data and show that the model
recovers a basic knowledge of chemistry without being explicitly trained
to do so. Finally, I will describe a generative model for molecules that
gives a synthetic route to the molecules generated.| | Huxley Building, LT 145 |
